CSC-25: Import EV Guidelines to CS Baseline Requirements (#38)
cabforum/code-signing: docs/CSBR.md

   2. When the CA has utilized the services of an RA, the CA MAY rely on the language skills of the RA to perform the Final Cross-Correlation and Due Diligence, provided that the RA complies with [Section 3.2.9](#329-final-cross-correlation-and-due-diligence), Subsections (1), (2) and (3). Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to issuing the EV Code Signing Certificate, the CA MUST review the work completed by the RA and determine that all requirements have been met; or
   3. When the CA has utilized the services of an RA, the CA MAY rely on the RA to perform the Final Cross-Correlation and Due Diligence, provided that the RA complies with this section and is subjected to the Audit Requirements of [Section 8.7](#87-self-audits) and [Section 8.2](#82-identityqualifications-of-assessor).

In the case of EV Code Signing Certificates to be issued in compliance with the requirements of [Section 1.3.2.1](#1321-delegation-of-functions-to-registration-authorities-and-subcontractors), the Enterprise RA MAY perform the requirements of this Final Cross-Correlation and Due Diligence section.

### 3.2.10 Disclosure of Verification Sources

> Effective as of 15 September 2024, prior to the use of an Incorporating Agency or Registration Agency to fulfill these verification requirements, the CA MUST publicly disclose Agency Information about the Incorporating Agency or Registration Agency. This disclosure SHALL be through an appropriate and readily accessible online means.

Reviewer: May want to consider moving this back. Assuming this ballot goes into discussion tomorrow, that will give CAs less than 2 months to comply, which a potentially heavy lift for something that requires code/website changes.

Author: Fixed in 4ae6c8c9a33460ff3fd3a924548615d4012efd31

2. **Acceptable Methods of Verification**: The CA MUST take reasonable steps to verify with the following lists and regulations:

   1. If the CA has operations in the U.S., the CA MUST take reasonable steps to verify with the following US Government denied lists and regulations:

       1. BIS Denied Persons List - [https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/the-denied-persons-list](https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/the-denied-persons-list)
       2. BIS Denied Entities List - [https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/policy-guidance/lists-of-parties-of-concern/entity-list](https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/policy-guidance/lists-of-parties-of-concern/entity-list)
       3. US Treasury Department List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons - [https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/sdn-list/pages/default.aspx](https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/sdn-list/pages/default.aspx)
       4. US Government export regulations

   2. If the CA has operations in any other country, the CA MUST take reasonable steps to verify with all equivalent denied lists and export regulations (if any) in such other country.

### 3.2.9 Final Cross-Correlation and Due Diligence

> 

Reviewer 2: I suggest we here again clarify that this is for EV only:
```suggestion
This section is applicable for EV Certificate Requests.

```

Author: It is not just for EV, it is also applicable for OV Certificate Requests. This was done on purpose. Let me know if you need to discuss some more.

Reviewer 2: "due diligence" isn't directly an item in section 11.13 though. 

Considering this may mean the entire section 11.13, that would still only apply to EV Certificates as that section itself call upon the issuance of EV Certificates

Author: FWIW, check out the discussion of ballot CSC-7
- https://lists.cabforum.org/pipermail/cscwg-public/2021-January/000257.html

Author: As discussed in yesterday's CSCWG Teleconference, in case of any possible misinterpretation or uncertainty, we should add some clarification language to make sure that everyone understands that the requirements for cross-correlation and due diligence apply to both EV and non-EV Code Signing Certificates.

@XolphinMartijn do you want to propose some language around that? I believe it would be non-controversial to add that in the ballot and call it out in the ballot's preamble.

Reviewer 2: @dzacharo I'm good leaving out my proposed suggestion, as mentioned on our call yesterday.

Regarding the remainer of the conversation, I still don't agree with the assessment made there.
Considering we're also moving towards a single type of Code Signing however, I'm also not sure if it's worth diving deeper into that at this point.

#### 4.1.1.2 Government Entity Subjects

An Applicant qualifies as a Government Entity if:

1. The entity's legal existence was established by the political subdivision in which the entity operates;
2. The entity is not in any country where the CA is prohibited from doing business or issuing a certificate by the laws of the CA's jurisdiction; and
3. The entity is not listed on any government denial list or prohibited list (e.g., trade embargo) under the laws of the CA's jurisdiction.

#### 4.1.1.3 Business Entity Subjects

An Applicant qualifies as a Business Entity if:

1. The entity is a legally recognized entity that filed certain forms with a Registration Agency in its jurisdiction, the Registration Agency issued or approved the entity's charter, certificate, or license, and the entity's existence can be verified with that Registration Agency;
2. The entity has a verifiable physical existence and business presence;
3. At least one Principal Individual associated with the entity is identified and validated by the CA;
4. The identified Principal Individual attests to the representations made in the Subscriber Agreement;

> 5. The CA verifies the entity's use of any assumed name used to represent the entity pursuant to the requirements of [Section 3.2.2.2.2](#32222-verification-of-applicants-legal-existence-and-identity----assumed-name);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The CA verifies the entity's use of any assumed name used to represent the entity pursuant to the requirements of [Section 3.2.2.2.2](#32222-verification-of-applicants-legal-existence-and-identity---assumed-name);

```

Let's try this and see what happens.

      2. Timestamp Authority server actions performed;
      3. Security profile changes;
      4. System crashes and other anomalies; and
      5. Firewall and router activities;
   5. Revocation of a timestamp certificate,
   6. Major changes to the timestamp server's time, and
   7. System startup and shutdown.

### 5.4.2 Frequency of processing log

### 5.4.3 Retention period for audit log

The CA, Delegated Third Parties, and Timestamp Authority MUST retain, for at least two (2) years:

1. CA certificate and key lifecycle management event records (as set forth in [Section 5.4.1.1](#5411-types-of-events-recorded-for-cas))(1) after the later occurrence of:
   1. the destruction of the CA Private Key; or
   2. the revocation or expiration of the final CA Certificate in that set of Certificates that have an X.509v3 basicConstraints extension with the cA field set to true and which share a common Public Key corresponding to the CA Private Key;
2. Subscriber Certificate lifecycle management event records (as set forth in [Section 5.4.1.2](#5412-types-of-events-recorded-for-timestamp-authorities))(2) after the revocation or expiration of the Subscriber Certificate;

> 3. Timestamp Authority data records (as set forth in [Section 5.4.1.2](#5412-types-of-events-recorded-for-timestamp-authorities)) after the revocation or renewal of the Timestamp Certificate private key (as set forth in [Section 6.3.2](#632-certificate-operational-periods-and-key-pair-usage-periods));

Reviewer: Why was "Private Key" changed to "private key"? The Defined Term seems ok to use here.

Techniques that MUST be used to satisfy this requirement include:

1. Use of an Hardware Crypto Module, verified by means of a FIPS or Common Criteria certificate; or
2. A cloud-based key generation and protection solution with the following requirements:
   1. Key creation, storage, and usage of Private Key must remain within the security boundaries of the cloud solution’s Hardware Crypto Module that conforms to the specified requirements;
   2. Subscription at the level that manages the Private Key must be configured to log all access, operations, and configuration changes on the resources securing the Private Key.

#### 6.2.7.4 Subscriber Private Key protection and verification 

##### 6.2.7.4.1 Subscriber Private Key protection

> For Non-EV Code Signing Certificates issued prior to June 1, 2023, the CA MUST obtain a representation from the Subscriber that the Subscriber will use one of the following options to generate and protect their Code Signing Certificate Private Keys:

Reviewer: Consider removing all of this

Author: Re-use period is still in effect for those (825 days) so I am considering leaving as-is. Perhaps we can update in a future cleanup ballot. Any objections?

Reviewer: I don't think the text is needed anymore since the then-current CSBRs are applicable to previous issuance and changes here have no bearing. That being said, I don't object to deferring this to a later ballot. I was only hoping to minimize the need of a future cleanup ballot by tackling now since we're already making changes in this section.

Author: I'm sure we'll have more to clean-up so punting for a separate ballot.

1. A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) that generates and secures a Key Pair and that can document the Subscriber’s Private Key protection through a TPM key attestation. 
2. A suitable Hardware Crypto Module with a unit design form factor certified as conforming to at least FIPS 140-2 Level 2, Common Criteria EAL 4+, or equivalent. 
3. Another type of hardware storage token with a unit design form factor of SD Card or USB token (not necessarily certified as conformant with FIPS 140-2 Level 2 or Common Criteria EAL 4+). The Subscriber MUST also warrant that it will keep the token physically separate from the device that hosts the code signing function until a signing session is begun. 

> For Non-EV Code Signing Certificates issued prior to June 1, 2023, a CA MUST recommend that the Subscriber protect Private Keys using the method described in Section 6.2.7.4.1(1) or 6.2.7.4.1(2) over the method described in Section 6.2.7.4.1(3) and obligate the Subscriber to protect Private Keys in accordance with [Section 9.6.3](#963-subscriber-representations-and-warranties) (2).

Reviewer: Ditto here

Author: See https://github.com/cabforum/code-signing/pull/38#discussion_r1635199276

> For EV Code Signing Certificates issued prior to June 1, 2023, CAs SHALL ensure that the Subscriber’s Private Key is generated, stored and used in a Hardware Crypto Module that meets or exceeds the requirements of FIPS 140-2 level 2 or Common Criteria EAL 4+. Acceptable methods of satisfying this requirement include (but are not limited to) the following:

Reviewer: Ditto again

Author: See https://github.com/cabforum/code-signing/pull/38#discussion_r1635199276

4. The CA ships a suitable Hardware Crypto Module, with a preinstalled Private Key, in the form of a smartcard or USB device or similar;
5. The Subscriber counter-signs certificate requests that can be verified by using a manufacturer’s certificate indicating that the Private Key is managed in a suitable Hardware Crypto Module;
6. The Subscriber provides a suitable IT audit indicating that its operating environment achieves a level of security at least equivalent to that of FIPS 140-2 level 2.

> Effective June 1, 2023, Subscriber Private Keys for Code Signing Certificates SHALL be protected per the following requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscriber Private Keys for Code Signing Certificates SHALL be protected per the following requirements.

```

Author: See https://github.com/cabforum/code-signing/pull/38#discussion_r1635199276

> Effective as of 15 September 2024, the CA SHALL ensure that, at time of issuance, the values within these fields have been disclosed within the latest publicly-available disclosure, as described in [Section 3.2.10](#3210-disclosure-of-verification-sources), as acceptable values for the applicable Incorporating Agency or Registration Agency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effective as of 15 March 2025, the CA SHALL ensure that, at time of issuance, the values within these fields have been disclosed within the latest publicly-available disclosure, as described in [Section 3.2.10](#3210-disclosure-of-verification-sources), as acceptable values for the applicable Incorporating Agency or Registration Agency.

```

d. __Certificate Field:__ `subject:serialNumber` (2.5.4.5)  
   __Required/Optional:__ Required  
   __Contents__: 

* For Private Organizations, this field MUST contain the Registration (or similar) Number assigned to the Subject by the Incorporating or Registration Agency in its Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Registration, as appropriate.  If the Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Registration does not provide a Registration Number, then the date of Incorporation or Registration SHALL be entered into this field in any one of the common date formats.
* For Government Entities that do not have a Registration Number or readily verifiable date of creation, the CA SHALL enter appropriate language to indicate that the Subject is a Government Entity.
* For Business Entities, the Registration Number that was received by the Business Entity upon government registration SHALL be entered in this field.  For those Business Entities that register with an Incorporating Agency or Registration Agency in a jurisdiction that does not issue numbers pursuant to government registration, the date of the registration SHALL be entered into this field in any one of the common date formats.

> Effective as of 15 September 2024, if the CA has disclosed a set of acceptable format or formats for Registration Numbers for the applicable Registration Agency or Incorporating Agency, as described in [Section 3.2.10](#3210-disclosure-of-verification-sources), the CA MUST ensure, prior to issuance, that the Registration Number is valid according to at least one currently disclosed format for that applicable Registration Agency or Incorporating agency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effective as of 15 March 2025, if the CA has disclosed a set of acceptable format or formats for Registration Numbers for the applicable Registration Agency or Incorporating Agency, as described in [Section 3.2.10](#3210-disclosure-of-verification-sources), the CA MUST ensure, prior to issuance, that the Registration Number is valid according to at least one currently disclosed format for that applicable Registration Agency or Incorporating agency.

```

Effective as of 15 September 2024, if the CA has disclosed a set of acceptable format or formats for Registration Numbers for the applicable Registration Agency or Incorporating Agency, as described in [Section 3.2.10](#3210-disclosure-of-verification-sources), the CA MUST ensure, prior to issuance, that the Registration Number is valid according to at least one currently disclosed format for that applicable Registration Agency or Incorporating agency.

e. __Certificate Field:__ Subject Physical Address of Place of Business Fields  
   __Required/Optional:__ As stated in [Section 7.1.4.2](#71423-subject-distinguished-name-field---non-ev-code-signing-certificates) b, c, d, e and f.  
   __Contents__: This field MUST contain the address of the physical location of the Subject's Place of Business.

> f. __Certificate Field__: `subject:organizationIdentifier` (OID: 2.5.4.97)  

Reviewer: The addition of this text could be construed as a new requirement, as the CSBRs previously had no restriction on the contents of this attribute.

Not sure if any CA would actually be affected by the inclusion of this language, though.

Author: As agreed in yesterday's CSCWG Teleconference, the orgId language (and associated appendices) will be removed from this ballot and addressed in a future ballot, evaluating language from other WGs (S/MIME having the latest revision on the associated orgId requirements).

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/cabforum/code-signing/commit/46da8115bd6ceea0a49d8e5d02527777ca28a24a

| Name of application signer and approver               | Obtain letter from verified Officer confirming the names of the application signer and approver                                                                                                    | Obtained letter from the President confirming the names of the duly authorized names of the application signer and approver as they appear in the application                        |

As a result of applying the above procedures, I/we found [no / the following] exceptions [list of exceptions].  However, these procedures do not constitute an audit of the company's application for an EV Code Signing Certificate, and therefore I express no opinion on the application dated ......................., 20.....

This letter is for use solely in connection with the application for an Extended Validation Certificate by [Client] dated ......................., 20......

City

(signed) ......................................

# Appendix D - Country-Specific Interpretative Guidelines (Normative)

> NOTE: This appendix provides alternative interpretations of the EV Guidelines for countries that have a language, cultural, technical, or legal reason for deviating from a strict interpretation of the EV Guidelines.  More specific information for particular countries may be added to this appendix in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: This appendix provides alternative interpretations of these Requirements for countries that have a language, cultural, technical, or legal reason for deviating from a strict interpretation of the these Requirements.  More specific information for particular countries may be added to this appendix in the future.

```

Author: How about:

```suggestion
NOTE: This appendix provides alternative interpretations of Requirements related to EV Code Signing Certificates, for countries that have a language, cultural, technical, or legal reason for deviating from a strict interpretation of these Requirements. More specific information for particular countries may be added to this appendix in the future.
```
